python3 --version - Used to check the version of python currently running`

pip3 install pipenv - 

pipenv is a dependency management tool for installing application dependencies in virtual environment. This prevents or application dependencies from clashing with other application dependencies.

pipenv install Django - Used to install the Django package

code . -Used to open the folder in VS code

pipenv shell -Used to activate the virtual environment so we use the python interpreter inside the virtual environment and not the one installed globally on this machine

django-admin -Used to start a new project. It is a utility that comes with django

django-admin startproject <projectname> - Used to create a new Django project. Add a period (.) after the project name to use the current directory as the project directory

__init.py__ -Defines this directory as a package 

settings.py - Where we define the settings for our application

urls.py -where we define the URLs of our application 

asgi.py and wsgi.py - Are used for deployment 

manage.py is a wrapper around django admin. Going forward we will use manage.py. The reason is that manage.py takes the settings of this project into account.

python manage.py runserver <portnumber> - Used to start a web server. Default is port 8000




pipenv --venv - USed to find the path to our virtual environment

Every Django project is essentially a collection of various apps, each providing certain functionality

'django.contrib.sessions' app - A session is a temporary memory on the server for managing user data

ctrl + l - Used to clear terminal window

python manage.py startapp <Appname> -Used to create a new django app. All django app have the exact same structure.

Migrations folder is used for generating database tables

admin.py module -where we define how the admin interface for this app is going to look like

apps.py module is where we configure the app

models.py module is where we define the model classes for this app. We use model classes to pull out data from the database and present to the user

tests.py module where we write our unit test.

NOTE: Anytime you create a new app, you have the register it in the list of INSTALLED_APPS

pipenv install django-debug-toolbar - to install to toolbar in terminal. Add it in the list of INSTALLED_APPS. Also create a path for it in urls.py

Add a Middleware - Use middleware to hook into django's request response processing

We use the Path() to create a URL pattern object

Every django app can have its own url configuration module. But you need to add it to the main URL configuration for this project 

FINISHED SETTING UP DEPENDENCIES 
python manage.py makemigrations -helps in creating or modify our database tables.

----Sarting project

python manage.py makemigrations - to build our models

cmd + T - Go to symbol (class function, variable)

shft + cmd + O - to symbol editor variables classes and functions 

python manage.py migrate -Used ot generate our database tables

python manage.py sqlmigrate - Used to see the SQL command that is sent to our database at runtime


2 - What are RESTful APIs?

Building an API is simply building an interface that client apps can use to get or save data.

An API is going to have a bunch of endpoints (/products, /carts, /orders) for different purposes. Client apps send requests to these endpoints

Representational State Transfer (REST) - It defines a bunch for rules for clients and servers to communicate over the web. Following these rules help build systems that are:
1. Fast
2. Scalable
3. Reliable
4. Easy to understand
5. Easy to change

An API that conforms to the following rules are RESTful:
1. Resources
2. Representations 
3. HTTP Methods


3 - Resources

A resource is like an object (Product, Collection, Cart) in our application. They are available on the web and client applications can access them using a URL (Uniform Resource Locator)

URL is a way to locate a Resource on the Web, it is a web address


4 - Resource Representations

We can identify a Resource using its URL. When we go to that URL, the server will return the Resource in a certain format or Representation such as HTML, XML, JSON none of which are the internal representation of a Resource on a server.

On the Server, we identify a Resource using an Object or an instance of a python class. We return this object as either HTML, XML, JSON.  

JSON - It is a notation for representating objects in JavaScript
{
    "name": "Kena",
    "age": 24,
    "is_online": True,
    "employer": {},
    "interests": []
}

5 - HTTP METHODS

When building a REST API, you expose one or more endpoints for clients.

Using HTTP Methods, the clients can tell the server what it wants to do with the resources
GET - Getting a resource or collection of resource
POST - for creating a resource POST /products
PUT - Updating a resource
PATCH - Updating part of it PATCH /products/1
DELETE - Deleting a resource DELETE /products/1

6 - Installing Django REST Framework

It is a separate framework that sits on top on Django and makes it easy to build RESTful APIs

`pipenv install djangorestframework`- To install the REST framework

Then add it to the list of INSTALLED_APPS






































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































